User management docs (#137)
validmind/documentation: site/guide/manage-users.qmd

---
title: "Manage users"
keywords: "manage users, user management, ValidMind"
---

Managing users is fundamental to maintaining access control and efficient user management in the ValidMind system. This task topic will guide you through the process of inviting new users, assigning them to specific groups, and configuring their roles. Whether you're a group administrator or a superuser, understanding these steps is crucial for ensuring the right individuals have the appropriate access and permissions within the system.

## Viewing your account profile

> 1. Log in to the ValidMind UI.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  [Log in to the ValidMind UI]({{< var vm_ui >}}).
```

Step 1 should always look the same and include the login link.

> 2. Go to Settings at the sidebar and select  **Profile** at Your Account.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Settings** in the sidebar and select **Profile**.
```

This line had some issues, so I suggested the most likely change but please verify it's actually correct.

3. You can find the following at your profile page.
   - Profile details 
   - Roles attached to your account
   - Values for API Key and Secret Key

## Prerequisites

To perform these next steps, you must be a group administrator or a superuser.

## Invite new users

1. [Log in to the ValidMind UI]({{< var vm_ui >}}).

2. Click **Settings**. 

>    - Navigate to **User Permissions** in the sidebar. 

Author: Since this bulleted list is quite specific about which UI elements you interact with and the sequence you need to follow, it's likely better off as a lettered list. Bullets don't specify a required order but a., b., etc., does.

   - Click **Invite New Users**.
   - Enter the user's email address.
   - Assign the user to a group from the **Group** dropdown menu.
   - Add roles to the user by clicking the {{< fa circle-plus >}} icon and selecting the appropriate roles from the list.
   - Click **Assign Roles to invitee**.

>    - Users now will have the option to accept the invitation through the email they receive.

Author: ```suggestion

   Users now will have the option to accept the invitation through the email they receive.
```

(This should not be a list item as it describes the state after the step is complete.)

3. You can find pending invitations at the **Pending Invites** section.

4. Confirm that the new user is successfully added and that their group and roles are correctly configured to meet your access control requirements.

## Assign new roles to a user

1. [Log in to the ValidMind UI]({{< var vm_ui >}}).

2. Under **User Permissions** in the sidebar, select **User Directory**. 

3. Use one of these methods to assign roles to users:

>    - Option 1
>       - Select the checkbox next to one or more users and click **Assign New Role** or **Assign New Role to _n_ Users**.
>    - Option 2
>       - Next to any individual user, click the {{< fa circle-plus >}} icon. 

Author: ```suggestion
   - Select the checkbox next to one or more users and click **Assign New Role** or **Assign New Role to _n_ Users**; OR
   - Next to any individual user, click the {{< fa circle-plus >}} icon. 
```
